We're not going to turn our attention to one of the processing phases and discuss the order of processing and we'll see
Once again
it's important to know what you can change and what you can't change
So let's talk about stream processing order
What the heck does that mean
Well
keep in mind when we talk about processing order were in the apply face and this is the phase where the chunks that were created by the split phase
Are they a map to the underlying common for drain pool to be running parallel
Now
it turns out that the order in which the chunks in a parallel streamer
processed is intentionally non-deterministic
What that means is is you have no control over it and will happen here
is that the way in which the fork join pool
takes the tasks that it's been given and runs them
Can be different for different Ron's
be different on different Hardware different
A different operating systems different
different versions of the job of execution
environment
Java virtual machine is still on
even for the same input
And programmers have little or no control over that
You just can't do anything about it
And that's actually by Design
The reason for doing this
is it enables the various layers in the job execution environment JDM Java virtual machine or something
Like the Android Arch runtime environment
which uses ahead of time compilation is supposed to work
The machine and interpretation
All of these kinds of things can be optimized in ways that are transparent to your coat
So the way in which tasks are scheduled and executed in the fork
join pool on the execution environment that they
the end
the hard work or is the operating system after system thread
all of those things to be optimized in a way that's totally transparent to you
And that's a good thing
You don't really want to have to know about those details
Good example
of where Salon determines that might come from
is the fork join framework
Support for work stealing to talk a lot about work stealing when we talked about before
Join framework
We'll talk a little bit about it when we talk about how the parallel streams framework uses for join pool
but they see what happens is if you've got the workers Fred's in the fourth join
Have their own internal to which is called a deck for a double-ended cute and whenever a worker thread has no work on its deck
it turns around and tries to steal available work from other workers threads decks in order to be able to have the performance maximized of the CPU of the multi-core processors
And the reason for doing this is to improve overall
through put in the system
but it also leads to a lot of non determinism and that's perfectly
Okay
That's what you want